Jigsaw - Agile Community Rules Classification
Using AI models to help moderators uphold community-specific norms.


Jigsaw - Agile Community Rules Classification

Join Competition
Overview
If you’ve ever had a comment taken down on Reddit and wondered “why?”, you’re not alone. Each subreddit has its own set of guidelines, and trying to understand individual subreddit moderation can feel like chaos.

In this competition, you’ll bring some ‘comment sense’ to the table and work with real data to build models that predict which rule (if any) a comment may have broken.

Start

2 months ago
Close
16 days to go
Merger & Entry
Description
Your task is to create a binary classifier that predicts whether a Reddit comment broke a specific rule. The dataset comes from a large collection of moderated comments, with a range of subreddit norms, tones, and community expectations.

The rules you’ll be working with are based on actual subreddit guidelines, but the dataset itself is drawn from older, unlabeled content. A small labeled dev set has been created to help you get started.

This is a chance to explore how machine learning can support real-world content moderation, particularly in communities with unique rules and norms.

Background
Inspired by the work of our colleagues Deepak Kumar, Yousef AbuHashem, and Zakir Durumeric where large language models were deployed to try to guess the reasons that moderators used to remove comments. This work builds upon the work of Eshwar Chandrasekharan and Eric Gilbert which collected a set of millions of moderated comments.

This several-year-old dataset is unlabeled. It is accompanied by a list of hypothetical rules—derived from real rules on a variety of subreddits—to help identify potential comment violations.

Rules Classification
Participants have access to a small subset of the data, which can be used as a dev resource. This information is suitable for use as training data or for few-shot examples. The remainder of the labels will be used, in a 30%:70% to form the public and private test sets.

Evaluation
Scoring
Submissions are evaluated on column-averaged AUC.

Submission File
For each row_id in the test set, you must predict the probability that a comment violates a given rule. The file should contain a header and have the following format:

row_id,rule_violation
2029,0.5
2030,0.67
2031,0.1
etc.
Timeline
July 23, 2025 - Start Date.
October 16, 2025 - Entry Deadline. You must accept the competition rules before this date in order to compete.
October 16, 2025 - Team Merger Deadline. This is the last day participants may join or merge teams.
October 23, 2025 - Final Submission Deadline.
All deadlines are at 11:59 PM UTC on the corresponding day unless otherwise noted. The competition organizers reserve the right to update the contest timeline if they deem it necessary.

Prizes
1st Place - $35,000
2nd Place - $25,000
3rd Place - $15,000
4th-8th Place - $5,000
Code Requirements


Submissions to this competition must be made through Notebooks. In order for the "Submit" button to be active after a commit, the following conditions must be met:

CPU Notebook <= 12 hours run-time
GPU Notebook <= 12 hours run-time
Internet access disabled
Freely & publicly available external data is allowed, including pre-trained models
Submission file must be named submission.csv
Please see the Code Competition FAQ for more information on how to submit. And review the code debugging doc if you are encountering submission errors.




# Dataset disscritpion
Dataset Description
The dataset provides instances of comments that may or may not have violated a specific rule on a subreddit.

The training dataset contains only two rules. The test dataset contains additional rules that models must be able to generalize to. (The number of unseen rules is not specified as part of the competition.)

Files
train.csv - the training dataset
body - the text of the comment
rule - the rule the comment is judged to be in violation of
subreddit - the forum the comment was made in
positive_example_{1,2} - examples of comments that violate the rule
negative_example_{1,2} - examples of comments that do not violate the rule
rule_violation - the binary target
test.csv - the test dataset; your objective is to predict the probability of a rule_violation. NOTE: The test dataset contains additional rules that are not seen in the in the training data, so models must be flexible to unseen rules.
sample_submission.csv - a sample submission file in the correct format.
